---
layout: post
title: It's my birthday, but I got you some links
---
The best part of the day was hearing my wife tell Ryland to "go give this to
daddy", then seeing him wandering around the house carrying a birthday card for
me.

### GamerGate

> Failing to adequately cover this act of spinelessness was the first big
fuck-up we at Gawker committed. Intel surrendered to the worst kind of
dishonesty, and we allowed it to do so without ever calling it out. So let's
say it now: Intel is run by craven idiots. It employs pusillanimous morons. It
lacks integrity. It folded to misogynists and bigots who objected to a woman
who had done nothing more than write a piece claiming a place in the world of
video games. And even when confronted with its own thoughtlessness and
irresponsibility, it could not properly right its wrongs.
<cite>http://gawker.com/how-we-got-rolled-by-the-dishonest-fascists-of-gamergat-1649496579</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-27 -->

> If GamerGate is about ethics among journalists, why is the female developer
receiving 14 times as many outraged tweets as the male journalist?
<cite>http://www.newsweek.com/gamergate-about-media-ethics-or-harassing-women-harassment-data-show-279736</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-27 -->

> Like they’re all little Anne Franks, hiding in their basements from the PC
Nazis and Social Justice Warrior brigades, desperately protecting the last
shreds of “core gaming” in their unironically horrible Liveblog journals
filled with patently obvious white privilege and poorly disguised misogyny.
“First they came for our Halo 2’s, and I said nothing.”
<cite>https://medium.com/the-cauldron/why-gamergaters-piss-me-the-f-off-a7e4c7f6d8a6</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-24 -->


### US Government

> The absurdity runs deep: America is using American military equipment to bomb
other pieces of American military equipment in Iraq, so that ISIS does not use
that American military equipment to bomb Iraqis.
<cite>http://www.vox.com/2014/10/27/7078635/isis-carbomb-stolen-american-humvee-iraq</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-27 -->

> It was at this point that I realized Eric Schmidt might not have been an
emissary of Google alone. Whether officially or not, he had been keeping some
company that placed him very close to Washington, D.C., including a
well-documented relationship with President Obama. Not only had Hillary
Clinton’s people known that Eric Schmidt’s partner had visited me, but they
had also elected to use her as a back channel.
<cite>http://www.newsweek.com/assange-google-not-what-it-seems-279447</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-26 -->

> Terrorist 2: Your new plan is that we get Ebola, fly to the United States,
and lick a bunch of doorknobs?
<cite>http://www.vox.com/2014/10/21/7024273/ebola-isis-terrorist-dialogue</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-22 -->


### Management

> Recognize that employees have lives outside of work — cultivate a deep
respect for employees’ time. When employees leave because of their boss, it
rarely comes from personality mismatches; it stems from a lack of confidence.
Counteroffers are (an expensive) band-aid; they won’t fix an employee’s
fundamental unhappiness. Building a genuine sense of community is crucial to
employee retention.
<cite>http://firstround.com/article/This-is-Why-People-Leave-Your-Company</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-25 -->

> Measure performance on achieving goals, not on heroic work.
<cite>http://recode.net/2014/10/10/fostering-a-better-work-environment-for-women/</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-24 -->


### Police

> The safest place for an inmate to store anything is in his rectum, and to
keep the orifice supple and sized for the (contraband) phone, inmates have
been known to whittle their bars of soap and tuck them away as a placeholder
while their phones are in use. So a short and stubby bar means a durable old
dumbphone; broad and flat means a BlackBerry or an iPhone.
<cite>http://www.theatlantic.com/features/archive/2014/09/how-gangs-took-over-prisons/379330/</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-26 -->

> Many white Americans, indoctrinated by the ridiculous number of buddy-cop
films and police-themed TV shows that Hollywood has cranked out over the
decades—almost all of them portraying police as heroes—may be surprised by the
continuing outbursts of anger, the protests in the street against the police
that they see in inner-city environments like Ferguson. But they often don’t
understand that these minority communities, in many cases, view the police as
the enemy. We want to believe that cops are good guys, but let’s face it, any
kid in the ghetto knows different. The poor and the disenfranchised in society
don’t believe those movies; they see themselves as the victims, and they often
are.
<cite>http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2014/10/the-police-are-still-out-of-control-112160_full.html</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-25 -->

> The only thing that differentiated me from a random customer standing and
watching and taking pictures was my green legal observer hat. And there were
four other legal observers there. The police walked right past them and
arrested me. The only thing that differentiated me from the other observers
was the fact that I was black.
<cite>http://www.vox.com/2014/10/24/7033567/ferguson-protest-arrested-michael-brown</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-24 -->


### Everything else

> Marin, one of the best places to get in the adrenaline zone was Cascade
Canyon Road, which had been a favorite of the hardest of the hardcores since
the early 1970s. In fact, even its nickname, Repack, which people like Charlie
Kelly and Fred Wolf started using some time after 1974, was hardcore,
describing the maintenance required to keep a coaster-brake bike’s rear hub
spinning after a couple of descents.
<cite>http://www.collectorsweekly.com/articles/the-hippie-daredevils-who-were-just-crazy-enough-to-invent-mountain-biking/</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-26 -->

> Your whine makes me kind of wish that people from the actual poor side of
town come this year not with scary costumes but with real pitchforks. Stop
being callous and miserly and go to Costco, you cheapskate, and get enough
candy to fill the bags of the kids who come one day a year to marvel at how
the 1 percent live.
<cite>http://www.slate.com/articles/life/dear_prudence/2014/10/dear_prudence_on_halloween_poor_kids_come_to_trick_or_treat_in_my_neighborhood.single.html</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-24 -->

> ...they asked behavioral and traditional therapists to watch a video of a
person being interviewed, who was labeled either “patient” or “job applicant,”
and then evaluate the person. The behavioral therapists regarded the
interviewee as well adjusted regardless of whether they were told the person
was a patient or an applicant. But the traditional therapists found the
interviewee labeled “patient” significantly more disturbed.
<cite>http://mobile.nytimes.com/2014/10/26/magazine/what-if-age-is-nothing-but-a-mind-set.html</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-23 -->

> The key difference between a tech hub like San Francisco compared to Seattle,
Austin, and Raleigh — the first of which has a greater share of its economy
rooted in tech — is housing supply. Other tech hubs around the country build
more, which alleviates demand. San Francisco is one of the most regulated
cities in America when it comes to urban development, which heavily restricts
how much can be built.
<cite>http://www.vox.com/a/homeless-san-francisco-tech-boom</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-22 -->

> That Siri. She doesn’t let my communications-impaired son get away with
anything. Indeed, many of us wanted an imaginary friend, and now we have one.
Only she’s not entirely imaginary.
<cite>http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/19/fashion/how-apples-siri-became-one-autistic-boys-bff.html</cite>

<!-- 2014-10-21 -->
